Components V2 + Content Inventory Entry (#357)
discord-userdoccers/discord-userdoccers: pages/resources/components.mdx

| 10 ^1^ | [Text Display](#text-display)                       | Markdown text                                              | Content     | Message        |
| 11 ^1^ | [Thumbnail](#thumbnail)                             | Small image that can be used as an accessory               | Content     | Message        |
| 12 ^1^ | [Media Gallery](#media-gallery)                     | Display images and other media                             | Content     | Message        |
| 13 ^1^ | [File](#file)                                       | Displays an attached file                                  | Content     | Message        |
| 14 ^1^ | [Separator](#separator)                             | Component to add vertical padding between other components | Layout      | Message        |
| 16 ^2^ | [Content Inventory Entry](#content-inventory-entry) | Displays an activity feed entry                            | Content     | Message        |
| 17 ^1^ | [Container](#container)                             | Container that visually groups a set of components         | Layout      | Message        |

> ^1^ Requires [message flag](/resources/message#message-flags) `1 << 15` (`IS_COMPONENTS_V2`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
^1^ Requires the [`IS_COMPONENTS_V2` message flag](/resources/message#message-flags).
```

###### Custom ID

Additionally, interactive components like buttons and selects must have a `custom_id` field. The developer defines this field when sending the component payload, and it is returned in the interaction payload sent when a user interacts with the component. For example, if you set `custom_id: click_me` on a button, you'll receive an interaction containing `custom_id: click_me` when a user clicks that button.

`custom_id` is only available on interactive components and must be unique per component. Multiple components on the same message must not share the same `custom_id`. This field is a string of a maximum of 100 characters and can be used flexibly to maintain state or pass through other important data.

| Field     | Type   | Description                                      |
| --------- | ------ | ------------------------------------------------ |
| custom_id | string | Developer-defined identifier, max 100 characters |

> ## Action Row

Reviewer: Please convert all H2s for individual components to H3s

An Action Row is a top-level layout component used in messages and modals.

Action Rows can contain:

- Up to 5 contextually grouped [buttons](#button)
- A single [text input](#text-input)
- A single select component ([string select](#string-select), [user select](#user-select), [role select](#role-select), [mentionable select](#mentionable-select), or [channel select](#channel-select))

###### Action Row Structure

| Field      | Type                                           | Description                                                                                     |
| ---------- | ---------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | type       | integer                                        | `1` for action row component                                                                    |
> | id?        | integer                                        | Optional identifier for component                                                               |
> | components | array of [component objects](#component-types) | Up to 5 interactive [button](#button) components or a single [select](#string-select) component |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| type       | integer                                        | `1` for action row components                                                                    |
| id?        | integer                                        | An optional identifier for the component                                                               |
| components | array[[component object](#component-object)] | Up to 5 interactive [button](#button) components or a single [select](#string-select) component |
```
same comments on a lot of the other objects

          "custom_id": "click_no"
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

## Button

A Button is an interactive component that can only be used in messages. It creates clickable elements that users can interact with, sending an [interaction](/interactions/receiving-and-responding#interaction-object) to your app when clicked.

Buttons must be placed inside an [Action Row](#action-row) or a [Section](#section)'s `accessory` field.

###### Button Structure

| Field     | Type                                           | Description                                                                       |
| --------- | ---------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| type      | integer                                        | `2` for a button                                                                  |
| id?       | integer                                        | Optional identifier for component                                                 |
| style     | integer                                        | A [button style](#button-styles)                                                  |

> | label?    | string                                         | Text that appears on the button; max 80 characters                                |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| label?    | string                                         | Text that appears on the button (max 80 characters)                                |
```
same comment in a lot of other places

> | emoji?    | partial [emoji](/resources/emoji#emoji-object) | `name`, `id`, and `animated`                                                      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| emoji?    | partial [emoji](/resources/emoji#emoji-object) object | The emoji that appears on the button                                                      |
```

| custom_id | string                                         | Developer-defined identifier for the button; max 100 characters                   |
| sku_id?   | snowflake                                      | Identifier for a purchasable SKU, only available when using premium-style buttons |
| url?      | string                                         | URL for link-style buttons                                                        |

> | disabled? | boolean                                        | Whether the button is disabled (defaults to `false`)                              |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| disabled? | boolean                                        | Whether the button is disabled (default `false`)                              |
```

Buttons come in various styles to convey different types of actions. These styles also define what fields are valid for a button.

- Non-link and non-premium buttons **must** have a `custom_id`, and cannot have a `url` or a `sku_id`.
- Link buttons **must** have a `url`, and cannot have a `custom_id`
- Link buttons do not send an [interaction](/interactions/receiving-and-responding#interaction-object) to your app when clicked
- Premium buttons **must** contain a `sku_id`, and cannot have a `custom_id`, `label`, `url`, or `emoji`.
- Premium buttons do not send an [interaction](/interactions/receiving-and-responding#interaction-object) to your app when clicked

> ###### Button Styles

Reviewer: ```suggestion
###### Button Style
```
update elsewhere as well

| Name      | Value | Action                                                         | Required Field |
| --------- | ----- | -------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------- |
| Primary   | 1     | The most important or recommended action in a group of options | `custom_id`    |
| Secondary | 2     | Alternative or supporting actions                              | `custom_id`    |
| Success   | 3     | Positive confirmation or completion actions                    | `custom_id`    |
| Danger    | 4     | An action with irreversible consequences                       | `custom_id`    |
| Link      | 5     | Navigates to a URL                                             | `url`          |

> | Premium   | 6     | Purchase                                                       | `sku_id`       |

Reviewer: should be Value | Name | Description | Required Field and names should be capital

        "type": 1,
        "components": [
          {
            "type": 2,
            "label": "Click me!",
            "style": 1,
            "custom_id": "click_one"
          }
        ]
      }
    ],
    "channel_id": "345626669114982402",
    "author": {
      "username": "Mason",
      "public_flags": 131141,
      "id": "53908232506183680",
      "discriminator": "1337",
      "avatar": "a_d5efa99b3eeaa7dd43acca82f5692432"
    },
    "attachments": []
  },
  "member": {
    "user": {
      "username": "Mason",
      "public_flags": 131141,
      "id": "53908232506183680",
      "discriminator": "1337",
      "avatar": "a_d5efa99b3eeaa7dd43acca82f5692432"
    },
    "roles": [
      "290926798626357999"
    ],
    "premium_since": null,
    "permissions": "17179869183",
    "pending": false,
    "nick": null,
    "mute": false,
    "joined_at": "2017-03-13T19:19:14.040000+00:00",
    "is_pending": false,
    "deaf": false,
    "avatar": null
  },
  "id": "846462639134605312",
  "guild_id": "290926798626357999",
  "data": {
    "custom_id": "click_one",
    "component_type": 2
  },
  "channel_id": "345626669114982999",
  "application_id": "290926444748734465"
}
```

> ### Button Design Guidelines

Reviewer: Should probably be h4? not sure

###### General Button Content

- 34 characters max with icon or emoji.
- 38 characters max without icon or emoji.

> - Keep text concise and to the point.
> - Use clear and easily understandable language. Avoid jargon or overly technical terms.
> - Use verbs that indicate the outcome of the action.
> - Maintain consistency in language and tone across buttons.
> - Anticipate the need for translation and test for expansion or contraction in different languages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
not 100% sure on whether thisshould be removed

> ###### Multiple Buttons
> 
> Use different button styles to create a hierarchy. Use only one `Primary` button per group.
> 
> If there are multiple buttons of equal significance, use the `Secondary` button style for all buttons.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

                },
                "label": "Mage",
                "value": "mage"
              },
              {
                "description": "You get heals when I'm done doing damage",
                "emoji":{
                  "id": "625891303795982337",
                  "name": "priest"
                },
                "label": "Priest",
                "value": "priest"
              }
            ],
          }
        ],
      }
    ],
    "edited_timestamp": null,
    "flags": 32768,
    "id": "847587334500646933",
    "interaction": {
      "id": "847587333942935632",
      "name": "dropdown",
      "type": 2,
      "user": {
        "avatar": "a_d5efa99b3eeaa7dd43acca82f5692432",
        "discriminator": "1337",
        "id": "53908232506183680",
        "public_flags": 131141,
        "username": "Mason"
      }
    },
    "mention_everyone": false,
    "mention_roles":[],
    "mentions":[],
    "pinned": false,
    "timestamp": "2021-05-27T21:29:27.956000+00:00",
    "tts": false,
    "type": 20,
    "webhook_id": "845027738276462632"
  },
  "token": "UNIQUE_TOKEN",
  "type": 3,
  "version": 1
}
```

###### Select Menu Resolved Object

> The `resolved` object is included in interaction payloads for user, role, mentionable, and channel select menu components. `resolved` contains a nested object with additional details about the selected options with the key of the resource type—`users`, `roles`, `channels`, and `members`.

Reviewer: This shoulsd h
```suggestion
The `resolved` object is included in interaction payloads for user, role, mentionable, and channel select menu components. `resolved` contains a nested object with additional details about the selected options.
```

<Alert type="info">

`members` and `users` may both be present in the `resolved` object when a user is selected (in either a [user select](#user-select) or [mentionable select](#mentionable-select)).

</Alert>

> ###### Example Resolved Object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
//  Insert structure here

###### Example Select Menu Resolved
```

| --------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| type            | integer                                                           | `8` for channel select                                                                                                                                   |
| id?             | integer                                                           | Optional identifier for component                                                                                                                        |
| custom_id       | string                                                            | ID for the select menu; max 100 characters                                                                                                               |

> | channel_types?  | array of [channel types](/resources/channel#channel-type)         | List of channel types to include in the channel select component                                                                                         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| channel_types?  | array[integer]        | [Channel types](/resources/channel#channel-type) to include in the channel select component                                                                                         |
```

| spoiler?     | boolean                                               | Whether the media should be a spoiler (or blurred out). Defaults to `false` |

###### Example

```json
{
  "components": [
    {
      "type": 10,
      "content": "Live webcam shots as of 18-04-2025 at 12:00 UTC"
    },
    {
      "type": 12,
      "items": [
        {
          "media": {"url": "https://livevideofeedconvertedtoimage/webcam1.png"},
          "description": "An aerial view looking down on older industrial complex buildings. The main building is white with many windows and pipes running up the walls."
        },
        {
          "media": {"url": "https://livevideofeedconvertedtoimage/webcam2.png"},
          "description": "An aerial view of old broken buildings. Nature has begun to take root in the rooftops. A portion of the middle building's roof has collapsed inward. In the distant haze you can make out a far away city."
        },
        {
          "media": {"url": "https://livevideofeedconvertedtoimage/webcam3.png"},
          "description": "A street view of a downtown city. Prominently in photo are skyscrapers and a domed building"
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

## File

> A File is a top-level component that allows you to display an [uploaded file](#uploading-a-file) as an attachment to the message and reference it in the component. Each file component can only display 1 attached file, but you can upload multiple files and add them to different file components within your payload. This is similar to the `embeds` field of a message but allows you to control the layout of your message by using this anywhere as a component. Files are only available in messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A File is a top-level component that allows you to display an [uploaded file](#uploading-a-file) as an attachment to the message and reference it in the component. Each file component can only display 1 attached file, but you can upload multiple files and add them to different file components within your payload.

Files are only available in messages.
```

###### File Structure

| Field    | Type                                                  | Description                                                                                                                      |
| -------- | ----------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| type     | integer                                               | `13` for a file component                                                                                                        |
| id?      | integer                                               | Optional identifier for component                                                                                                |

> | file     | [unfurled media item](#unfurled-media-item-structure) | This unfurled media item is unique in that it **only** supports attachment references using the `attachment://<filename>` syntax |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| file     | [unfurled media item](#unfurled-media-item-structure) object | This unfurled media item is unique in that it **only** supports attachment references using the `attachment://<filename>` syntax |
```

> | spoiler? | boolean                                               | Whether the media should be a spoiler (or blurred out). Defaults to `false`                                                      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| spoiler? | boolean                                               | Whether the media should be spoilered (default false)                                                      |
```

| spacing? | integer | Size of separator padding - `1` for small padding, `2` for large padding. Defaults to `1` |

###### Example

```json
{
  "components": [
    {
      "type": 10,
      "content": "It's dangerous to go alone!"
    },
    {
      "type": 14,
      "divider": true,
      "spacing": 1
    },
    {
      "type": 10,
      "content": "Take this."
    }
  ]
}
```

## Content Inventory Entry

A Content Inventory Entry is a top-level component that displays an activity feed entry.

###### Content Inventory Entry Structure

| Field                   | Type                                                              | Description                                |
| ----------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| type                    | integer                                                           | `16` for Content Inventory entry component |
| id?                     | integer                                                           | Optional identifier for component          |

> | content_inventory_entry | [Content Inventory entry](#content-inventory-entry-object) object | Content Inventory entry data               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| content_inventory_entry | [content inventory entry](#content-inventory-entry-object) object | Content inventory entry data               |
```

###### Content Inventory Entry Object

| Field         | Type                                                                      | Description                                                                    |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| id            | string                                                                    | ID of the entry as a snowflake when sent in guild, string of numbers when DM'd |
| author_id     | snowflake                                                                 | ID of the user this entry is for                                               |

> | author_type   | integer                                                                   |                                                                                |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| author_type   | integer                                                                   | The type of author that created this entry |
```

enum
```js 
return e[e.AUTHOR_TYPE_UNSPECIFIED = 0] = "AUTHOR_TYPE_UNSPECIFIED",
e[e.USER = 1] = "USER",
```

| content_type  | integer                                                                   | [Content type](#content-inventory-content-types)                               |

> | traits        | array[[Content Inventory trait](#content-inventory-trait-object)] object  | Controls info such as streak, marathon and time                                |
> | extra         | [Content Inventory metadata](#content-inventory-metadata-object) object   | Metadata, such as game or song                                                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| traits        | array[[content inventory trait](#content-inventory-trait-object)] object  | Controls info such as streak, marathon and time                                |
| extra         | [content inventory metadata](#content-inventory-metadata-object) object   | Metadata, such as a game or song                                                 |
```

| ended_at?     | ISO8601 timestamp                                                         | When this entry ended                                                          |
| started_at?   | ISO8601 timestamp                                                         | When this entry started                                                        |
| original_id?  | snowflake                                                                 | ID of the entry                                                                |
| guild_id?     | snowflake                                                                 | Guild ID this entry happened in                                                |
| channel_id?   | snowflake                                                                 | Channel ID this entry happened in                                              |
| session_id?   | snowflake                                                                 | Session ID of this entry                                                       |

> | signature     | [Content Inventory signature](#content-inventory-signature-object) object | Signature metadata for validation                                              |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| signature     | [content inventory signature](#content-inventory-signature-object) object | Signature metadata for validation                                              |
```

> ###### Content Inventory Content Types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
###### Content Inventory Content Type
```

| Value | Description       |
| ----- | ----------------- |
| `0`   | Unspecificed      |
| `1`   | Played Game       |
| `2`   | Watched Media     |
| `3`   | Top Game          |
| `4`   | Listened Media    |
| `5`   | Listened Session  |
| `6`   | Top Artist        |
| `7`   | Custom Status     |
| `8`   | Launched Activity |

> | `9`   | Leaderboard       |

Reviewer: Values shouldn't be in backticks, and this needs a name column as well

| type                     | integer           | [Trait type](#content-inventory-trait-types)                              |
| first_time?              | boolean           | Shows the "New player" text (only type `1`)                               |
| duration_seconds?        | integer           | Total time elapsed during this entry (only type `2`)                      |
| is_live?                 | boolean           | Entry is still ongoing (only type `3`)                                    |
| range?                   | integer           | Time range (`0` unspecified, `1` week) (only type `4`)                    |
| resurrected_last_played? | ISO8601 timestamp | Timestamp of when the game for this entry was last played (only type `5`) |
| marathon?                | boolean           | Shows the "#h marathon" text (only type `6`)                              |
| streak_count_days?       | integer           | Number of days for the streak text (only type `8`)                        |
| trending?                | integer           | Trending type (`0` unspecified, `1` global) (only type `9`)               |

> | count?                   | integer           | Total Count (only types `10`, `11`, `12`)                                 |

Reviewer: Types should reference names, e.g. only type `LAUNCHED_ACTIVITY`

> ###### Content Inventory Trait Types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
###### Content Inventory Trait Type
```

| Value | Description                     |
| ----- | ------------------------------- |
| `0`   | Unspecificed                    |
| `1`   | First time ("New Player")       |
| `2`   | Duration                        |
| `3`   | Is Live                         |
| `4`   | Aggregate Range                 |
| `5`   | Resurrected ("Returning after") |
| `6`   | Marathon                        |
| `7`   | New Release                     |
| `8`   | Streak                          |
| `9`   | Trending                        |
| `10`  | Top Item Total Count            |
| `11`  | Top Parent Item Total Count     |

> | `12`  | Aggregate Count                 |

Reviewer: Same as the other enum

| application_id?           | snowflake                                                                | ID of the associated application                                                                   |
| platform?                 | integer                                                                  | [Platform type](#content-inventory-platform-types) (`played_game_extra` only)                      |
| last_update?              | ISO8601 timestamp                                                        | When this entry was last updated                                                                   |
| entries?                  | array[[metadata entry](#content-inventory-metadata-entry-object) object] | Entries (only one for the component)                                                               |
| media?                    | [metadata entry](#content-inventory-metadata-entry-object) object        | Metadata object of type `listened_media_extra`                                                     |

> | provider?                 | integer                                                                  | (`0` unspecified, `1` spotify) (`listened_media_extra` only)                                       |

Reviewer: Please turn the inline enums into proper enum definitions

| `launched_activity_extra` | Discord Activity               |

###### Content Inventory Metadata Entry Object

| Field               | Type                                                  | Description                                         |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| media?              | [metadata](#content-inventory-metadata-object) object | Metadata object of type `listened_media_extra`      |
| verification_state? | integer                                               |                                                     |
| repeat_count?       | integer                                               | How many times this track has been played on repeat |

###### Content Inventory Artist Object

| Field       | Type   | Description                                                   |
| ----------- | ------ | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| external_id | string | External platform ID for this artist (e.g. Spotify artist ID) |
| name        | string | Name of the artist                                            |

> ###### Content Inventory Platform Types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
###### Content Inventory Platform Type
```

| Value | Description |
| ----- | ----------- |
| `0`   | Desktop     |
| `1`   | Xbox        |
| `2`   | PlayStation |
| `3`   | iOS         |
| `4`   | Android     |
| `5`   | Nintendo    |
| `6`   | Linux       |

> | `7`   | macOS       |

Reviewer: Same here as well

| ------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| url           | string   | Supports arbitrary urls and `attachment://<filename>` references                                                                                 |
| proxy_url?    | string   | The proxied url of the media item. This field is ignored and provided by the API as part of the response                                         |
| height?       | ?integer | The height of the media item. This field is ignored and provided by the API as part of the response                                              |
| width?        | ?integer | The width of the media item. This field is ignored and provided by the API as part of the response                                               |
| content_type? | string   | The [media type](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Media_type) of the content. This field is ignored and provided by the API as part of the response |

> ### Uploading a file
> 
> To upload a file with your message, you'll need to send your payload as `multipart/form-data` (rather than `application/json`) and include your file with a valid filename in your payload. Details and examples for uploading files can be found in the [API Reference](/reference#uploading-files).
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ## Legacy Message Component Behavior

Reviewer: maybe this section should be boosted to the top?

Before the introduction of the `IS_COMPONENTS_V2` flag, message components were sent in conjunction with message content. This means that you could send a message using a subset of the available components without setting the `IS_COMPONENTS_V2` flag, and the components would be included in the message content along with `content` and `embeds`.

> Apps using this Legacy Message Component behavior will continue to work as expected, but it is recommended to use the new `IS_COMPONENTS_V2` flag for new apps or features as they offer more options for layout and customization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bots using this Legacy Message Component behavior will continue to work as expected, but it is recommended to use the new `IS_COMPONENTS_V2` flag for new bots or features as they offer more options for layout and customization.
```

> Legacy Message Component Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
###### Legacy Message Component Example
```
